---
output:
  pdf_document: default
  html_document: default
---
# Parallel BLAST

#### Important!
You have to create a public key for the remote host computer (a cluster, like Mazorka), for the par-blast to work we need to allow the host to access your computer without it asking for a password.  

## From your computer:

First create a directory named *parBlast* in your computer (use **mkdir**), move into it and create two more directories with the names *input_split_blast* and *blast_results_split*. 

If there is already a *parBlast* directory make sure that it is empty, except for the *input_split_blast* and *blast_results_split* directories which have to be empty too before running the parallel blast.   

Concatenate all your *.faa* sequence files, this command should help:  
` cat *.faa > Concatenados.faa`   

Copy the *Concatenados.faa* file into the *parBlast* directory in your computer.  

You have to use this file to create a database for blast:  
`makeblastdb -in Concatenados.faa -dbtype prot -out Concatenados`  
**NOTE:** the output file **must** be named *Concatenados* for the next scripts to work.  

Now, we have to count the number of sequences within the file:    
`grep ‘>’ Concatenados.faa | wc`  

Example:
`grep ‘>’ Concatenados.faa | wc`  
`379570 379570 13469390`  
This means that we have 379570 sequences in our file.   

You have to divide this number between the number of splits you want, let's say 16 splits. We need to find out the number of sequences per split (we will call this *yourNumber*). So, 379570 divided by 16 is 23724 approximately.

Copy the script named *3.split_multifasta.pl* to the *parBlast* directory then, on the command line, enter:  
`./3.split_multifasta.pl –in=/mypath/parBlast/Concatenados.faa –output_dir=/mypath/parBlast/input_split_blast --seqs_per_file=yourNumber`
**NOTE:** Substitute */mypath* with the path where you created the *parBlast* directory. Also substitute *youNumber*.

We need to create a file that list the number of files that were generated by the split, go to the *input_split_blast* directory and use the next command:  
`ls *.fsa | sort -g >fasta_files.txt`  

Use **scp** to copy the *fasta_files.txt* file to your PARBLAST directory in your account on the remote host (if the directory doesn not exist, log into the remote host and create it).  
`scp ~/mypath/parBlast/input_split_blast/fasta_files.txt user@remotecluster:~/mypath/PARBLAST/fasta_files.txt`
**NOTE:** In the first line */mypath* refers to the path in your computer. The second one to the path in the remote host.

## From the Host computer (the cluster, like Mazorka).

Log into the host computer.  
If a parallel blast has been run before make sure to empty the _LOGS_ directory in your home directory in your account at the host computer. If _LOGS_ doesn’t exist, create it with **mkdir**.

Move to the PARBLAST directory. Copy the script named *4.blast.iMac-nodes.pl*, then run it:  
`./4.blast.iMac-nodes.pl`

## That's it
Now you only have to wait for your results to appear in the *blast_results_split* directory.
